hello everyone welcome to another
episode of B2B marketing and more with
Pam dinner yay
I haven't done a lot of episodes lately
that's because I was busy I don't know
writing a novel yes I'm writing a novel
I will tell you more a little later in a
different episode but today I have a
special guest for you and she is a
director of dimanji and for HMI
performance incentive and she is Agnes
fortino O'Connell hey Agnes is so happy
to have you here hey I'm so excited to
be here thanks for having me
and we met at the b2bmx in February
Agnes came to my workshop and we had a
great time we hit it off right there
and the time I was talking about sales
enablement and Agnes told me
specifically that that's something that
she is doing so that's why I invited
Agnes to my episode and to the podcast
and to talk about specifically a couple
things how to better support sales and
also better supporting sales through the
main gen before we get started Agnes
talk to us about your job and also what
does your company do yeah sure it's my
performance incentives is a leading
incentive strategy company helping
companies with a broad spectrum of needs
and challenges motivate both their
direct and indirect sales teams
customers
cetera to meet sales goals increase
loyalty change behaviors and everything
else that you come to know and love
about customer loyalty and incentive
strategies if I'm not mistaken I think
the incentive program that you set up is
very much tailored for channel Partners
such as the wholesalers working directly
with their Distributors and the dealers
and the value and the resellers
assistant integrator is basically kind
of like a channel marketing tools and
then that you use that to incentivize
and a lot of Channel Partners to reach
the sales goal can you give us a very
specific example about that yeah sorry
we might work with a large wholesaler
let's say they were in the building
material space they're a company that's
trying to go after the contractor or the
dealer and we'd help them do a couple of
things one we'd help them create a
customer loyalty program that might go
after what you call the middle 60th
customers that group that is always with
you just you know what to expect out of
them and then might also help Target
their top 20 of their customers the
customers that bring 80 of their
business typically and we might put
together some form of group incentive
travel trip for those top customers
helping build a moat about around them
helping them diffuse from competition
taking them and again help grow that
middle 60 to do more than they've excuse
me stop
historically done with them so may I
summarize very quickly sounds like your
company offer product which is incentive
type of programs to actually help your
Distributors and I assume possibly
direct sales people as well and you
provide certain kind of incentive for
them to reach out certain goals and I
assume the incentive can be Money
Motivated or maybe some sort of travel
program so it's whatever your customer
wants to incentivize and you build a
program and you are able to track the
performance and they be built to a a
ward whoever reached that specific
Target is that correct your spot on for
an incentive marketing agency so now you
have told us specifically in terms of
what your company has done your role is
a director of domain Jam I remember when
I was talking to you and you said you've
been on the sales side you've been on
the marketing side so can before I talk
to you about you know the main gen which
is you have done tons of the campaigns
or whatnot can you talk to us a little
bit about being on the still side being
on the marketing side for any B2B
marketers would like to supporting sales
do you have any specific tips trick or
advice I think you have to just really
understand what's important to the sales
Folks at a myriad of levels and Pam I
actually think you gave some really
amazing advice during your workshop at
the B2B MX on this about you know
finding your sales Advocates right
finding those folks who are going to
help you make an imprint make a case
study of what you want to accomplish as
a marketer you really have to go put
your trust in sales hands and help
really help them help you get the job
done so what I like to say is you know
go find that top sales person and make
them your Advocate show them how your
campaign or whatever you want to roll
out as a marketer is going to make them
successful get them on board and then go
find someone maybe more in the middle
right someone who's meeting and
exceeding their kpis but is maybe not a
rock star and then onboard them onto
your plan and then when you have you
know those two or four or six people on
board you're gonna be pretty Untouchable
whatever you whatever you try to roll
out to your sales work so the bottom
line is really really get to know them
and it started with the small group of
people might be your ally build your own
try first and show them what kind of
value you would add and then take it
from there step by step as marketers we
talk so much about trialing right and
piloting and looking at data and I think
a lot of times marketers forget to do
that internally you know we only tend to
look at doing that externally and it's
kind of like hey take a moment pause
pilot internally see what the reaction
is and then go run that externally so
domain generation is hard I mean I've
been doing domain generation myself I
mean even actually try to build my own
pipeline that is hard not to mention
that you work for a company and you have
to sell products and the many B2B
marketers I have talked to a lot of
times they actually have a domain gen
targets like a monthly basis you know
like if you will Target they have to hit
it's actually very very hard do you have
any kind of like a Holy Grail or any
kind of campaigns or anything that you
do to actually help people to understand
what they can do to better optimize
their marketing campaigns that's a great
question and it's a loaded on it that
you know I think right now we've moved
away from a lot of what I would call
short-term kpis and we're really looking
at the long tail it's already to
interrupt what is a short-term kbi
versus a long tail can you be very
specific about it in our business you
know we have a long selling cycle like
hopefully most B2B marketers are
experiencing right now yeah we're
talking about 18 to 24 month sales
Cycles on the long end of it really
high-end high dollar value amounts so
for me looking at monthly mqls is really
not a great output of what we're going
to expect in that quarter for us we're
spending a lot of our time and attention
looking at thought leadership the sorts
of downloads the sorts of referral
traffic that we're getting from that the
if we can get pings on how that's coming
up in conversations how people are
leveraging what we're putting out there
is our best metric right now to
understand success
we tend to not look at as much you know
leads per month net new mqls we're
really looking at is our thought
leadership content creating
opportunities
so does that mean that a lot of your
metrics that you are responsible is tied
to say pipeline opportunity driven 100
of our metrics
what do you do to quantify that pipeline
opportunity through say referral traffic
or through like a thought leadership
content because a lot I feel there's a
gap between in terms of like the content
consumption and the leadership play and
all the sand there's a pipeline activity
so there's a gap right there and how do
you connect that Gap and bring that
content consumption or thought
leadership play down it's a great
question for us we're doing something
very simple which is capturing it at
Opportunity State essentially
understanding from the salesperson's
perspective how and why did this
opportunity turn into a deal and we're
asking them in the opportunity form to
State it and it's really interesting the
amount of people that are essentially
saying hey I feel like this was demand
gen oriented for these couple of reasons
so our goals are to have essentially 50
of our opportunities be self-validated
from sales saying this was demand gen
who helped me create this and then you
can start to look backwards in the
customer file if you will or in the
contact card to understand where did
they first come in to our database when
did they start to engage with us and
then when did they turn into an
opportunity I think the future state is
really looking at those three moments in
time and identifying is demand
generation at least a portion
responsible for those important turns
I love you identify the three moments as
when they come in and when they probably
become the opportunities So based on
your experience and the working
backwards and doing the reverse
engineering if I make hold on
and what are some of the channel from
your perspective is most common to
capture that moment
in terms of like okay that's the key
moment that possibly can train into a
pipeline opportunity what what kind of
campaign tactics that tend to drive to
that specific point for us it's a lot of
referral traffic from third-party
subject matter experts and I can give
you an example if we see that a contact
is constantly attending one of our
partners subject matter expert Partners
webinars on a certain topic that we're
sponsoring okay there's something here
right there their ears are up they're
looking for something in this can we
start to feed them a more aggregated
essentially marketing plan of and around
that topic and then can we start to
create a conversation essentially using
ABM tied to that so you actually watch
data like a hawk I assume yes uh we're I
mean we're a small team and we're feisty
at that so you know when you have a
small team as I'm sure a lot of B2B
marketers can relate to right now data
is your best friend I mean you know to
go do things at scale it's you have to
be data-driven right now what are some
of the common tools that you use in
addition to a cim the marketing
automation tool what are some of the
tools that you kind of help you to
actually unravel some of the key insight
for us right now we're pretty excited
about our Tech stack you know I think a
lot of things are kind of coming back in
style right now you know at b2bmx we
hear a lot about Direct Mail we're
trying to add a few different tools for
that into our marketing stack right now
to try and understand behaviors or also
uh we have two instances of intent data
formally stood up one at the top of the
funnel and one at the bottom of the
funnel all using our friends at role
Works we're also trying to find a
partner for more of that middle intent
data where we just have some listening
out in the universe we're also using
we're big Advocates of HubSpot so we use
them for both our CRM and our marketing
automation on the send standpoint we've
just set up an integration with a very
cool tool called handwrite which is
sending out handwritten notes from our
sales team after they meet in person
automated at a conference so we're able
to track that it'll have a QR code to
send them to some of our resources put
on it as well as a QR to their business
card that we can track on the back end
we're doing obviously a ton with QR
codes and trying to leverage that as
another source of intent data
you know we're played around with gong
as a great marketing tool I don't think
that gong as a which you know for your
listeners is an incredible sales
tracking tool that listens in using
machine learning and AI to sales calls
it's the marketing tool it's a marketing
tool yeah but at the end of the day I
mean it's it's really just
putting people right now to look at
those moments in time that returning
opportunities and then trying to scale
those moments
a lot of marketers are overwhelmed
because they feel they have to add a
different tool at the different stages
send your my tax stack becomes pretty
complicated
and I think to some extent that's
inevitable you have to use a different
tool a different time and there's no one
tool that fits all and also depending on
what kind of campaigns you are running
and different channels you might need to
use the different listening tools as
well so that I want to make sure
everybody understand that when Agnes was
talking about different tools that she
needs to use that's probably based on
the process or the workflow or the
marketing channels that she is utilizing
so understand those mate platforms you
know you can jot down the notes but you
have to kind of understand and to talk
to the vendors and see if that actually
fit your own attack stack or your own
workflow so it may fit it may not but
make a note of that understand what
those tools will do and then you can
make a decision if that actually works
for you so for the longest time when I
listen to a two hours oh my God Agnes
you use that tool you know what I
probably should use it too right but
then later I found out I need to
evaluate that tool first before I can
determine if that actually applies to me
but there was a period of time I was
like you know what everybody's using it
I should do but that's not necessarily
the case so I want to make sure you
understand that go ahead Agnes you know
it's something I'm passionate about I
love giving people you know the next
tool sort of recommendations and
something I'm coming out of actually
just yesterday with one of my team
members is essentially a martext deck
audit audit okay got it audit yep so we
we look at how are all of our systems
working together and if you don't
already have a flywheel of this I would
look at it and it's going to become a
pretty complex hopefully it becomes a
pretty complex flywheel because your
different tools will speak to one
another and you should draw that out so
just start drawing dotted lines or hard
lines if it's a very strong integration
and then you'll be able to show and
explain internally how everything works
which is really helpful for both your
team but also the sales team right to
show them hey here's how everything can
work together here's what you can use
here's what I can use here's what we can
both use and then what you could layer
on top of that is wear different tools
layer in so for example you could start
to augment that flywheel to show here's
what we're using at a leads level here's
what we're using on an mql level here's
what we're using in an SQL level here
are tools that we use everywhere and
then you can start a part of this maybe
ongoing deck is how I do it at least
that's updated that are hey here are
some tools that are not the right fit
for us right now but I've evaluated I
understand their pricing and I
understand what they can do and then you
just put a slide in for them with some
of your raw notes that way when a gap
does come up you're not scrambling
trying to go on Jeep two or wherever you
might go for your insights it's oh I
think I already did something there or
let me see if I've already evaluated
that flip through your deck and it's
waiting for you
here's my version of my flywheel and you
can edit this to make it your own for
what works for you so last question
now you've been working on the both
sales and marketing side have you have
any advice for anyone who are interested
kind of moving back and forth between
sales and marketing you know any kind of
career advice that you have for them
my first thought would be do both and I
I truly stand behind that you know and I
don't just stand behind I put it in
action I put up and set up a program at
HMI that is the HMI sales and marketing
Excellence program that allows young
grads to come in and see and experience
both sides of the house everything from
Biz Dev to field marketing to social to
digital and so on but you know I think
it's really important your trajectory to
understand how hard both roles are it is
it's amazing skill set to understand
what it's like to go you know do the
role of a Biz Dev making those 50 to 100
calls every day and I will say in turn
you understand then and I think have a
higher level of appreciation for when
you need those marketing assets at your
disposal to send out how great those are
to have and how to design them to be a
better fit for not only the actual sales
people using them but to the recipe
thereof so do both if you can
it'll make you a I think a more
well-rounded individual going into
either your sales or marketing career on
whatever side that you end up or you
could be like me and just maybe hover
somewhere in the middle if you find an
organization that will light you well
said I really have nothing to add except
I don't do two at the same time but try
each one of them in a different time so
you really don't want to be Michelle yo
like be everywhere anytime at the same
time I couldn't agree more one last fun
question so what show are you binge
watching I've been watching a bit of top
chef but the really old seasons of
Gordon Ramsay which has been fun in
Hell's Kitchen hey Agnes it's wonderful
to have you you share a lot of insight
and by the way it was so wonderful so
wonderful to meet you at my work job
such a great great addition to have you
at my workshop we had a great time right
we sure did cannot recommend going to
both B2B and Max will give them a bit of
a shout out because that was a really
excellent conference but also if you
have an opportunity to get to one of
Pam's workshops it was incredible truly
lucky to sit in her grace there for like
two and a half three hours you don't get
a lot of those opportunities to learn
like that from a marketing expert so
amazing I actually pay Agnes
[Music]
oh just kidding just kidding but I'm
actually doing a workshop a very similar
one about sales enablement and how the
Marketing sales up and the biz up even
marketing Ops how what you can do to
better support sales in the changing
environment ignite Chicago made 23rd so
if you are interested check that out or
reach out to me and by the way bring any
questions to the workshop I do answer
them seriously I do the entire time she
answers them the entire time it's
amazing all right hey Agnes it's
wonderful wonderful to have you here
wish you best of luck and keep us posted
about all the domain GN stuff that you
are doing and come back next time thanks
Pam I appreciate it
[Music]
never miss an episode of B2B marketing
and more by following us here on YouTube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts foreign